POWER BI
What is power bi :
Power bi is a Data visualization and Business intelligence tool, which converts raw data into visualized format.

Why power bi :
Power bi allows you to view, analyse , and visualize huge quantities of data that cannot be opened in Excel. Power bi uses powerful compression algorithms to import and cache the data within the .pbix file.
NOTE : POWER BI IS A PART OF DATA ANALYSIS

Data analysis :
It is a process of collecting , organizing , cleaning and visualizing the data in order to extract meaningful information.

Ex:
→ Collecting data
→ Cleaning data
→ Studying the numbers
→ Finding patterns
→ Making conclusions
→ Helping the company to make decisions

Steps for Data analysis :
1. Understanding business problems :
Based on different domains like sports, healthcare , sales , marketing etc.., we’ve to understand the problems which we’re facing.
Ex:
We’ve to analyse sales & profit by following domains.
→ Location
→ Product demand
→ Market

2. Collecting data from different sources / Extraction of data / data connection :
It is a process of collecting data from different sources like Excel, Csv ,data files etc.
→ Data can be from any source.

3. Data cleaning / Data transformation :
Handling null values, handling errors , replacing values, splitting , merging etc.

4. Data analysis / Data calculation :
→ It includes data calculation
→ Calculating sum, avg,profits etc.

5. Data visualization and interpretation :
Converting a normal format of data into graphical or pictorial representation is called visualization.
→ It is nothing but understanding what the data results mean and using it to make decisions.

POWER BI :
Power bi is a Data visualization and Business intelligence tool, which converts raw data into visualized format.

BI :
It is a combination of tools and processes , which is used to analyse data and visualize data to make better decisions.

Features of power bi :
● It allows us to connect huge amounts of data.
● It allows us to connect data from different sources like Excel, Csv, Sql, Azure, pdf’s etc.
● Easy drag and drop , no need to write codes.
● Power bi allows us to get insights and turn into actions to make better decisions.
● Real time updates also take place.

Advantages of power bi :
1. User friendly interface :
● Power bi has an interface that allows us to view, analyse and visualize the data easily.
2. Data integration :
● Power bi allows users to easily connect data from different sources , including excel , pdf’s etc.
3. Customizable dashboards :
● Users can create customized dashboards and reports to display data in a way that is meaningful to them.
4. Real time data :
● Power bi allows us to connect real time data
● Power bi supports real time data processing , which means users can view up to date data in their dashboards and reports.
5. Collaboration :
● Power bi allows users to share their dashboards and reports with others , making collaborating on data analysis projects easy.

Components of power bi :
Power bi desktop
Power bi Service
Power bi Mobile
Sub Components :
Power query
Power pivot
Power view
Power map
Power Q & A

1. Power bi Desktop :
→ It is a desktop application used for development in the sense of connecting data from different sources , transforming data and creating reports.
2. Power bi Service :
→ Power bi service is a cloud based platform that allows us to share and collaborate our reports and dashboards.
3. Power bi Mobile :
→ It allow us to view our reports and track our reports on our mobile → Basically it is a mobile version of power bi desktop
4. Power Query :
→ It is a tool that helps us with data cleaning & transformation in power bi we have an inbuilt tool that is power query editor.
5. Power pivot :
→ It is a tool which allows us to do calculations and analysis (DAX).
→ It consists of inbuilt tool that is table view
6. Power view :
→ It is a tool which allows us to do the visualization of data. We have an inbuilt tool that is report view .
7. Power maps :
→ It is a tool which allows us to visualize millions of rows of geographical data.
8. Power Q & A :
→ It is an AI tool which allows us to ask questions to our data and responds with suitable visualization for answers.
